In order to progress you have to understand why the thing you want to progress from is the way it is. For example it makes no sense of removing the umbrella while its raining just because you don’t like its color. You have to first verify if the reason why this element exists is still a legit condition. In this example this condition would be, it is still raining. And then find new strategies or not on how to deal with it. I could organize a better colored umbrella or a shelter to stand under or consciously decide that standing in the rain is better than keeping the unwanted umbrella. Just removing a structure because it is not liked without dealing with the original reason for its existence does not allow for positive change.

Our current social environment feels a lot like that to me. It keeps removing phenomena that stand out as imperfect for a society like “white supremasism“, “racism”, “white old powerful man”, “home staying women”, “homophobia”, “gender inequality”, and so on. Through news and the public spaces a consensus gets developed that those phenomena should be removed and forbidden. But our society consistently fails at looking at the actual reasons behind those phenomena that it decides to remove and therefore it does not find new responses and solutions to it. As a result it either replaces those phenomena with other bogus phenomena or just forces restrictions on a society that is not prepared for it. Likely, that this is better than not doing anything but does not feel like long term progress.


https://medium.com/@tswriting/history-tells-us-what-will-happen-next-with-brexit-trump-a3fefd154714
https://theotherjournal.com/2017/06/26/worldless-without-one-another-interview-judith-butler/
